Publicis Sapient

Questions
- 2hrs
- 20-30 mins - scenario based code and design 
- 90-100 mins
- Each section
- 40-50 min

- 20-30 mins - scenario based code and design
- 
- 
- Left 
High level coding



Section 1
Java

- Solution completeness. - design search based service , manage various exception scenario, advice exception handling, http code
- Code quality
- Exception handling


Language fundamentals , solid understand
- Basic of code java, OOPS, immutable class, was able to implement immutable class with mutable property, solid principle, appleid single responsibility in give scenario
- Collection data structure, lists, array list, hash map, concurrent hash map, array list vs linked list
- Java 8 - lamba expression, function interface, streams - filtering collection of object using stream map, filter map, predicate, parallel stream
- GOF aware about creational, structural, behavioural
- Explain thread safe singleton, proxy patter with example
- Multithreading - various types of thread pools, virtual threads, context switching, synchronised and lock api
- Messaging queue - Kafka, message retention, Event driven architecture, command vs event
- Database - Index, partition, sharing, replication
- JVM Profiler, GC basic, JVM configurations - basic of garbage collection, some idea about mark and sweep, minor GC and heap dump




Section 2
Solution and tooling
Logical view, sequence view and application layering -> technical design documentation, component interaction, non functional requirements, sequence diagram and security requirement
Solution architectural and architectural key points - > solution architecture template, architecture decision based on performance, open source availability
NFRs - NFR for security, code linting, https for data and motion, cross scripting validation, data masking
Other tech stacks will be discussed
Prod support and bug fixing - cpu and memory profiling, query level logging, and root cause slowness, gap -> identifying memory leak
Testing -> positives, unit testing, test coverage, cucumber, mockito, meter for perf testing 
Build and automation - Jenkins, docker image, container registry, vulnerability detection ,gaps - Kubernetes configuration file
Log and monitoring - ELK for log monitoring, log back, log stash, appender, prometheus, graphing for dashboard
Any certification -> 
Managing business as stake holder, owner for Self and team deliverable 


Section 3
Cloud and Microservices
Rest pricinples, OAS consumer specs -> api contracts, have idea about idempotent service, various http status codes, service granularity.
Microservice principle implementation -> CQRS, Event driven, can explain further pattern with examples, have idea of choreography and orchestration
Caching -> Cache for API performance, Hibernate second level cache, Redis HazelCast for distributed cache
Cloud Managed services -> CDN, Ingress, Object storage, AWS, SNS, Vaults for secret, container registry
Cloud solution architecture -> Physical architecture for highly available web service, Gap - Sizing , Capex and TCO
API security and basic auth -> API authentication, OAUTh, Okta, can explain basic life cycle of OAUTH
API gateway and ESP usage -> Zulu, spring cloud gateway, rate limiting, load balancer, APIGEE



Multi-tenancy for theatres

how to share real time information regarding booked tickets from theaters to booking system - via webhooks, queues or api .or polling. 
- When we call the different heaters api to update show details - have a mulesoft or camel to dynamically xml data for new data, at runtime integration is facilitated
- Have a new java service for each kind of theatre.
- 

what is the design pattern or architecture pattern used

how is resiliency achieved - DR, failovers, at code level, CB, bulk head, ( eg, during locking - we calling theater api, some theatres may have downtimes/delays, request are piling up, then CB can be used), retry

how to store cache. will it be in memory or disk. 

how to store movie information - mysql, and cache in redis or elastic search

multi tenancy for multiple theaters 

what will be release plan

estimation 

language related 

multiple countries and region release plan - it depends whether we are hosting one system for each country. or if all countries have same system.



Learning mindset. - how do you keep urself updated with technology, why upscaling is important, how it has helped. Messaging queue, k8s, AWS. Emerging technologies in Microservices. Looking 

Engaging with openess - how drive with cross functional teams, how openly interact with other teams, how do you manage and resolve conflicts, how do manage ppl in team. Specific delivery and u came back with solution, the scenario of ur fellow member got selected - did u try upscale or got upset., how do u manage conflict with peers and reportees and how to grow them. Eg in ur current organisation, how do you make up and running and 2-3 months.

Talk about production support as lead
Talk about how you have helped ur team members to learn and grow. - STAR analysis. What are ur parameter on which u grow and give promotion. If someone is average we can put on PIP and how u would upscale. Will discuss personal professional problems, then offering 


Inclusive collaboration - how do u collaborate with cross functional teams. How do u resolve conflicts  and resolve them and how u get everyone on the same page.

Partnering a client impact -> how do you work with project managers, and help them in solutions, how u solve there queries, and how do you push back the product manager on deliveries.

Embracing the future -> career aspirations, how do u see urself down the line. U being a technologist - will u take ppl management role. I m technologist and want to be 6-7 yrs down the line, if organisation wants me to use my expertise in other things and then I am ok to take extra responsibilities, but my aspirations are technology. I would like to see me as senior architect.




Book movie tickets by selecting a theatre, timing, and preferred seats for the day


LockedSeats - composite key on showId seatId

ShowId
SeatId
Status - Locked, Released
DateTime
Version - can also be used

LockedSeatsHistory - Move to history table after status is moved from locked to released


1. Thread will keep polling locked seats and delete row from this table if 10 mins locking period exceeded  - frequency of running job can be 5 mins
2. Checking in locked seats if that composite key already present or not then it will not insert.

What will be frequency of polling job to release seats

If user 1 proceeds to make payment 
While he is completing the payment on merchant site, 10 mins exceeds, 
Now locked rows are released by polling job
Before user 1 is able to complete the payment,
Another user locks the same seat and completes the payment 
then what will happen to payment done by user 1?

Prompt the user the below 2 options
- Cancel the payment & Refund the payment
- Give choice the user to select new seats from seat layout 


- Validate read scenario, db design. 
- Validate write scenario - how to validate already overlapping show


Database discussion

— Image url and image will be stored in s3, and image will be added in CDN

- Cache to store available seats , eviction policy of cache -> all past date shows can be removed.
- - Cache will be updated by each of the services









